the single most important thing you can
do as a public speaker to improve your
skills is practice I talk about this in
almost every single one of my videos the
importance of practicing but how do you
practice in this video I'm going to give
you five ways that you can practice your
public speaking and ultimately become a
more confident and impactful
Communicator the first way to practice
should come as a surprise to nobody
because I talk about it a lot on my
channel and that is joining a local
Toast Masters Club Toast Masters is the
way that I became a more confident
presenter and I love the structure
because once per week or once every two
weeks depending on how often your Toast
Masters Club meets you are getting the
chance to practice your skills in person
with a live audience of people who are
there either virtually or in person and
it is such a powerful thing to have the
repetition of Pres presenting in front
of a group of people because when that
becomes a regular part of your life all
of a sudden this idea of public speaking
becomes a little bit less scary another
thing that is so great about the Toast
Masters program is that you get realtime
evaluations and feedback so every role
within the Toast Masters Club is
evaluated therefore you are going to
hear how you did whether you took on the
gamaran rule or the timer rule or if you
gave a full speech you were going to get
that feedback in real time if you're
looking for a Toast Masters Club in your
area you can go to the Toastmasters
International website click on find a
club near you and search out to see if
this is an option the second way you can
practice public speaking is something
that just landed on my radar and I'm so
excited about SPO gives you various ways
even through the free version to
practice public speaking things like
presentation mode meeting mode mode
practice an interview and even random
prompts which is similar to the
Toastmasters table topic section where
you're practicing impromptu speaking SPO
has a lot of different features
including a toggle on whether you can
get real time feedback or not and when I
started experimenting with this app I
was blown away at the positive
reinforcement it gave me the tips it
gave me were really really smart I love
this app so much that I reached out to
the founder whose name is Nico Nico from
SPO and we had a zoom call and I told
him that I loved the product and I've
actually become an affiliate of theirs
so you're going to see a link down to
SPO within the show notes now please
know there are paid versions of this app
but there are a lot of tools you can use
for absolutely free so please if you
don't have the budget to do the paid
version of SPO just utilize some of the
free resources that are included within
the app because next to Toast Masters it
is one of the best ways I have found to
practice public speaking the third way
you can practice public speaking is by
recording yourself on a camera or on
your phone often times we don't realize
habits that we may have when we speak or
are practicing a speech until we
actually see it with our own eyes and
this can include using filler words
often we have filler words such as uh um
so and but there's all of these words
that we inject in between sentences
instead of silence and it actually takes
away from our speech and the great thing
about both SPO and Toast Masters is it
will identify what filler words you're
using but by recording yourself
presenting or practicing a speech you
will be able to review that video and
see what words you might be using you
may also have interesting body language
habits that you don't realize a common
one is leaning on a chair or a table as
you present or having a hand in your
pocket or fidgeting with your hands or
clasping them there's all sorts of
things we do when we're speaking that we
may not realize therefore if you don't
have access to Toast Masters or you
don't download the spico app I believe
the next best thing thing you can do is
record yourself and watch that footage
back the fourth way to practice public
speaking is by encouraging a family
member or a friend to watch you and then
give you feedback afterwards now one
important piece here is that I think
it's important for the family member or
friend to be given some specific
Direction so you want to give them the
context of what the speech is and tell
them what you're looking for feedback on
as an example if you're giving a speech
at a wedding you may want to give them
feedback that one of your goals is to
make the audience laugh and so as
they're watching your speech really have
them keeping an eye for those
opportunities where you could inject a
little bit more humor or how you could
make the speech even funnier or more
enjoyable I think it's also important
that the family member or friend tells
you what you did well because if that
individual just gives you all
constructive criticism and says you need
to do this better and this better and
this better it might be a little bit
deflating before you give your big
speech and on the other side maybe it's
a really loving family member or friend
who doesn't want to say anything
negative and they say that was the best
speech in the world well it's nice to
also know how you can make it better and
you don't want to have that false sense
of confidence if there's actually a lot
of room for improvement so tell them
that you want to know both what you did
well but also spe specific ways you
could improve the speech the final way
to practice public speaking and this may
not be specifically related to your
speech but is to truly take advantage of
speaking opportunities we have in
everyday life maybe you're at a work
meeting and your boss asks you to give
you a review of some of the things
you've been working on the past month
that is a speaking opportunity you have
an audience it's other co-workers or
maybe clients however you still have
this opportunity to practice all of the
skills that are important with public
speaking things like body language eye
contact whether that's in person eye
contact or eye contact with the camera
if you're giving a presentation
virtually but don't discount the small
speaking opportunities in life these are
all really good chances to work on our
skills and improve overall and the more
we do so that's going to help us in the
future when we're giving the bigger
speeches because we're constantly
working on improving our presentation
skills I hope these five tips have been
helpful but as a perhaps bonus tip I
will say that visualization is really
important one of the ways I often
practice before I give a speech is
anywhere in my house maybe there's an
empty room where no one else is and I
visualize I try to imagine the setup of
the room or whatever the situation will
look like where I'm giving a
presentation and I truly visualize
people standing there watching me and I
give the presentation just as I would on
the day that I'm actually going to
deliver it I practice looking around the
room I practice eye contact if I have
slides I project those in my laptop
screen in front of me so I can glance
down and then practice looking at the
pretend audience and this is something
that has helped me immensely is truly
going through the process of giving that
speech almost as if it was the actual
thing but visualizing that moment and I
can't express this enough I think it's
the single most important thing when it
comes to public speaking is that
practice is essential so whether you're
a beginner speaker about to give your
first speech or your F first work
presentation or if you're an elite
speaker even a keynote speaker who
delivers many speeches I believe these
tips can be beneficial to you because we
can always improve our craft when it
comes to public speaking I hope these
tips and this video has been helpful for
you if so let me know in the comment
section also if you haven't subscribed
please know that I will be making a lot
of videos in the future and I've already
done so in the past as well of how you
can improve your public speaking skills
so ensure you subscribe subscribe and
turn on those notifications but a
sincere thank you for taking the time to
watch this video